---
layout: post
title: "FRED"
date: 2025-12-12 00:00:00 -0000
categories: portfolio
tags: [portfolio]
---
I was one of the people working on microarchitecture design, particularly re. pipelining, on a RISC-V RV32I 5-stage pipelined CPU (FRED -
"FRED: a RISC-V Educational Design").

I was primarily responsible for the ALU during early phases of the project, but then moved to general microarchitecture design, as well as
testing and branch prediction.

Branch prediction in particular required a significant amount of thinking (and collaboration with other
members of the team) to find a solution that minimised additions to the critical path while maintaining high accuracy and not adding
additional stalls to the system (for reference, I implemented a simple 2-bit FSM-based branch predictor, but am interested and intend to
implement a much more advanced system in the future).

I was also the primary developer behind a "jumpbox" that handles mispredicted
branches and minimises stalls. This required significant testing and tracing, but ended up working very well, achieving a very high success
rate over some of the highly-looped test programs we used.

I also started designing a cache system, but we were unfortunately not able to
actually implement this by the project deadline. I hope to rectify this too in the future (with the rest of the original team), as well
as extending functionality to include multiplication instructions, a von Neumann memory architecture, and potentially working on
out-of-order execution with multiple functional units.

The project as originally submitted is available [here](https://github.com/ELEC50010-IAC-Ridgewell-Team12/fred). If this link does not
currently work, then we are not yet able to release it publicly. There will also likely be a separate repository for the open-source version
when development on that begins.
